okay today's the day I'm finally going
to show you my mom's New England clam
chowder it's different than most it's
pretty basic there's no bacon or corn
this soup is so easy and so yummy I know
you're going to fall in love with it so
stick around and I'll show you how to
make it okay the ingredients you will
need are four cups diced potatoes two
cups chopped celery two cups chopped
onions and four cans of clams wait and I
usually use two minced and two chopped
just to get a variety clams you're going
to need two pots to make this soup and
in the first pot you're going to add
your all your veggies in and you're
going to open up your cans of clams and
pour in their juice you can get a little
strainer to get more juice out but I
couldn't find my little strainer on this
day so I'm doing it old-school pour all
the juice in there and you might think
at first that that's a not enough juice
from the four cans but I promise you it
will be once your vegetables start
cooking they'll let off their juices and
you'll have plenty so you can use frozen
potatoes and it works really good in
this chowder but not at this point and
I'll show you later when you could add
the frozen potatoes in and you're going
to let these simmer until the potatoes
are tender now let's grab our second pot
to make the chowder you will need 1/2
cup of butter and I usually chop it up
to put it in the pot just so it'll melt
faster and then you will need a quart of
half-and-half
and then four cups of milk you can use
whole milk but we have skim in our house
the skin works fine the soup still
thickens up really well so don't worry
about that and then you'll need a cup of
corn starch I know I add it in when all
my milk is still very cold that way I
don't get lumps from the corn starch
okay you will need three teaspoons of
salt and black pepper
I just dust the top of it I don't
measure it at all
and then you'll need one teaspoon of
sugar
then you're going to whisk that up again
you're going to keep whisking until it
thickens up and you're not going to want
to ignore the stove too much because you
will scorch the bottom of your pan I
used to do that a lot when I first
started cooking this when I was in
college you don't have to consistently
stir book stir it quite often and it
will thicken up on you once your veggies
are done you're going to add them to
your cream mixture and this is when you
can add your frozen potatoes in it will
just take a little bit longer to heat
through and then you're going to add
your clams so it doesn't take long for
the clams to cook you just are heating
them through basically so and if you do
use frozen potatoes you might want to
use your whole milk instead of the skim
milk to help thicken it but it works
really good I've done it and then I just
taste test it with a plastic fork
because for some reason a metal fork
just makes the chowder seem saltier to
me I don't know I'm weird so yeah and
it's done you're basically just warming
your clams and your chowder is done it's
super fast you guys really quick and
then we'll just play it up and chow down
and I promise you you will absolutely
love this chowder it's addicting it
makes you really full
one this batch is just a one batch and
it feeds our family but if we are going
to have company we usually double it and
it makes a lot of soup but serve it up
with your favorite rolls and you will be
a happy camper seriously it was like one
of the first meals I ever learned to
cook for my mom and so in college I used
to make chicken fingers ramen and clam
chowder
those are real tears that's hilarious
I love oh goodness I can smell those
onions from here
holy cow my mom would make it for us
did you know there's lots of listening
going on on your face
this chowder is so good it'll make you
cry my eyes are burning they're on fire
dang Gina